* expand on H+M#2 (disciplinary labelling issues)
* point of departure: trying to explain what profession I want to pursue for UROP
	* had to describe what profession I was interested in so that I could explain how the proposed research project would align with that profession.
	* couldn't assume that my audience understood jargon like "civic tech" or "digital government" (or, at least, the way I understand such terms probably differs than the understanding of those outside these circles)
	* settled on "analyst"—it's exceedingly generic, but I needed something generic. because labels limit, I wanted something that would limit as little as possible.
* process of rewriting bio on personal site (link)
	* old bio:
		* I’m a designer in Ottawa, just doing my best. I’m interested in how design can help humanity, and I work here to determine my part in that process, while also exploring my various interests.
	* new (current) bio:
		* This is what I care about:
		* Remembering the humans. Everything we do comes back to people—care for them.
		* Questioning arbitrary barriers. Disciplines are human constructions—mix them.
		* Listening. Nobody has every answer—consult widely and humbly.
	* old one wasn’t bad! but new one demonstrates my theory of biography hierarchy
* biography hierarchy:
	* Providing a label is limiting. (“I am this thing!”)
	* Describing activities is better. (“I do these different things.”)
	* Providing principles is best. (“This is what I bring to each of my activities.”)
* Franklin as a case study: compare her bio/titles to her bibliography
	* "Ursula M. Franklin is an experimental physicist, University Professor Emeritus at the University of Toronto, a former board member of the National Research Council and the Science Council of Canada, and a companion of the Order of Canada. She has been awarded honorary degrees by numerous Canadian universities. *The Ursula Franklin Reader: Pacifism as a Map* was published in 2006."
	* this bio records the labels Franklin has worn, but it does little to tell us about what she has done
	* we might be better to mention her feminist, pacifist, scientific principles
	* *but* a principle-based bio rarely goes over well—we don't expect it, it reads weirdly (and a record of accomplishments is somewhat worthwhile, I suppose)
* recent Twitter bio change:
	* old: “Interested in using design to better government, institutions, and non-profits; also a university student. Slight imperfections add character.“
	* new: “What are the effects of tech upon our world? ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ (working on it)  Slight imperfections add character.”
	* old one discussed activities ("using design") and applied a label "university student". also brought up a (rather loose) principle: "slight imperfections add character".
	* new one focuses on a question as an area of interest, which could be interpreted as a principle—a lot of what/who I am can be described by considering this question and its derivatives.
* ultimately, does it matter?
	* a bio or self-description is only really necessary for those who don't know you yet (though there are some contexts where it's necessary, like introductions or book jackets. i don't have the latter)
	* hopefully through getting to know someone (via listening, my third guiding principle!), there’s no need for a bio
	* caveat: a bio can provide interesting insight into how someone understands *themselves*