It’s been seven years. On October 30, 2010, I issued my first invoice for web development work. At the time, I doubt I realized how much it’d shape the years to come.

Over this time—more than a third of my life—this work has led in numerous unexpected directions. It’s exposed me to the realities of managing a business—I’ve learnt a lot about invoicing and taxes. It’s lent me an interesting perspective on school, including opening my interest to the field of digital humanities. Most importantly, it’s introduced me to whole communities of folks who I’m happy today to call friends—nods especially to the WordPress community in Canada and abroad, and to the Ottawa Civic Tech community.

In 1955, [*The Seven Year Itch*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Seven_Year_Itch) debuted. It’s a romantic comedy about a man’s extramarital affair during the seventh year of his marriage. I haven’t actually seen the movie; I heard about it through [this Billy Joel interview](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2014/10/27/thirty-three-hit-wonder) that I love. But this idea of a seven year itch, of a gnawing sense that you want some change, I get it.

I’m itching for a change, somewhat. With time, I’m realizing that I want to take my technical knowledge and experience it and try to apply it in ways other than as a practitioner. I don’t think I’ll ever leave technical work behind; I enjoy it, and I think it’s important to stay grounded in it. But I’m curious about how technical knowledge can be combined with other skills that I love, like research, analysis, and client relations. Finding some way to connect my technical background and the topics I study in history and political science is even more exciting. (Something I already pursue somewhat on the side, as I keep tabs on various manifestations of critical digital studies.)

> Whoever you are, no matter how lonely,  
> the world offers itself to your imagination
> 
> —Mary Oliver, “Wild Geese”

Something that’s come up frequently in my conversations lately has been the idea that *life is pretty long*. Specifically, the idea that one life can contain a multitude of different experiences, and that future activities can build on your past in interesting and unexpected ways. Of course this may be the optimistic take of youth, but it seems reasonable on the surface.

How have you combined activities or interests from your past in new ways? Did you expect to end up where you are today? Do you see your position today shifting down the line, incorporating aspects of where you are today or where you were in the past?

As Oliver notes, the world offers itself to our imagination. All the best for the week ahead.