I’d like to chat this week about valuing work. Specifically, I’d like to talk about some of the challenges we run into with valuing *different kinds* of work. What do I mean by this?

In the spaces I inhabit—for example, the edges of the tech industry—work is often divided between “technical” and “non-technical”. The former applies mostly to coding, while the latter is a nebulous group that encompasses, well, everything else. (Note: This is an oversimplification, but it’s a useful one for this discussion.) Kate McLaughlin explains the wide realm of non-technical contributions that we ought to value, in [this 2016 *Model View Culture* piece](https://modelviewculture.com/pieces/acknowledging-non-coding-contributions). (Also check out [the other pieces under MVC’s excellently-titled “technical privilege” tag](https://modelviewculture.com/pieces/tag/technical-privilege).)

Reg Theriault, whom we first heard from in [issue #1](https://lucascherkewski.com/hit-and-miss/1-earthworming/), writes about the division between blue- and white-collar workers:

> [Workers, older workers in particular,] see [white-collar people] gaining a great deal of status and respect that they feel are denied them as blue-collar workers. … From listening to the complaints of my white-collar friends, however, I get the impression that though white-collar people may stay clean and may spend much of their time sitting down, they all seem to put in a pretty full, hard day. … To cap it off, most of them make less money than I do.
> – Reg Theriault, *How to Tell When You’re Tired*, 65–66

Theriault speaks here to the need to recognize both blue- and white-collar workers as they are. But his message applies equally *within* the ranks of any workers, regardless of their collar’s colour: we ought to value all contributions, because they’re work, and somebody worked to make them.

In talking with some folks at Ottawa Civic Tech in the past weeks, the importance of creating spaces for discussion came up a few times. The relevance here is that we often ignore the importance of discussion—especially in tech or tech-adjacent industries. That’s to say, we don’t treat discussion as *work*. But discussion is a valid, valuable form of contribution, and we ought always to remember that. Whenever I introduce the federal government contracting analysis project that a bunch of us are working on, I make sure to say that those with non-technical skillets are welcome: our project is as much about understanding federal contracting through discussion as it is through analysis of the contracts themselves. (We could definitely better facilitate those conversations, though—that's the next step!)

Sometimes those who contribute to discussions don’t feel as if they’re really contributing to their larger projects. (I suspect this comes from general devaluation of conversational contributions.) Sometimes the value of a conversation isn’t immediately obvious—it may be sometime before its importance manifests itself. Conversation doesn’t need some kind of tangible output to be valuable. It equips participants, especially those less familiar with the topic, with the vocabulary and confidence necessary to continue that discussion elsewhere. Really, this email is partly the result of some discussions—they took place over the last few weeks, and at the time they may not have seemed particularly valuable, but they eventually resulted in this tangible output. (Whether this email is valuable… I’ll leave that to you.)

On an indulgent closing note, I’ll share that [I was in the CBC this week](http://cbc.ca/news/canada/ottawa/phoenix-government-psac-payroll-1.4300801). (Look for the photo of me, midway through the article, featuring my famed twelve-year-old blue water bottle!) Through the project mentioned above, I’d provided some contracting data to Julie Ireton, who brought me in to the CBC office for a more structured interview. I wouldn’t have had the vocabulary and confidence to conduct that interview if it hadn’t been for the many discussions I’d sat in on at Civic Tech. This is one of those ways that the value of conversations appears long down the line.

Thanks to everyone whose conversations over the years set me up for where I am today. We may not have realized the value of those chats at the time, but hopefully that value continues to benefit us both as time goes on. Here’s to more conversation!