# Two disheartening, sickening failures from this week

I am tired today and this week, but I must raise two issues that had significant moments this week, because the women at the fore of these issues shouldn’t have to bear the burden alone.

[The Québec legislature passed a racist bill this week](http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/quebec-niqab-burka-bill-62-1.4360121), banning face coverings for anybody accessing public services (including using public transit and attending public schools). Saying it’ll apply to scarves, sunglasses, etc, is a weak attempt at obscuring the bill’s principle target: Muslim women. Claiming that a vast majority of Canadians would support it isn’t justification for infringing on people’s rights. And let’s remember that this isn’t a feminist move, either—limiting women’s wardrobes isn’t feminist.

In Ottawa this week, [a judge decided that a man was not guilty of sexual assault because he thought he could have sex with his wife anytime](http://ottawacitizen.com/news/local-news/ottawa-man-not-guilty-because-he-thought-he-could-have-sex-with-wife-anytime). Having sex with someone without “specific consent” is sexual assault—it’s rape. An issue of legal technicality clearing this man (if indeed this case was even decided without mistakes, which [some of Canadian law Twitter questions](https://twitter.com/cmathen/status/921577127434002432)) demonstrates clearly how ineffective our legal system is at dealing with sexual assault and rape cases.

That these two events happened in Canada at our present moment should be surprising, but it isn’t. Our society is full of problems. Racism (more specifically, Islamophobia) and sexism (more specifically, rape culture) are deeply ingrained in Canadian society—and as these two cases demonstrate, these problems run deep in our institutions.

Lucas