---
layout: study--newsletter
title: 'Science fair!!'
number: '36'
date: '2018-05-13 10:20:00 -0400'
published: true
---

{:h2: .f6 .ttu .tracked .mt5 .lh-title}
{:link: .dim .light-purple}
{:blockquote: .ml0 .pl4 .bl .bw3 .b--black-10 .f4}
{:blockquote__citation: .f5 .measure}
{:hr: .w-40 .mv5 .bw1 .ba .b--black-10}

Hi there!

This newsletter’s coming a bit later today because I spent the day volunteering at the 2018 Canada-Wide Science Fair, hosted this year at Carleton University. (I’m thoroughly zonked, so I apologize in advance for any typos. I corrected around five while typing that last sentence.)

My dad’s been involved with [my hometown’s regional science fair](http://wwsef.uwaterloo.ca){:link} for as long as I can remember. I’ve often attended the regional fair, as both a participant and visitor. Many of my friends have gone on from the regional fair to the national fair. My dad pushed me to volunteer (he attends as a chaperone), and after some persistent prodding I relented.

To be frank, I was a bit apprehensive about volunteering. I’m still settling into work and find myself quite tired at the end of each day, not to mention the end of the week. Though volunteering certainly wasn’t a *relaxing* break, it was a good mental break. The chance to step away from all my todo lists and just focus on the task at hand was particularly rewarding. I started each day off with a walk along the canal, which was a nice bit of weekend exercise.

The most fascinating projects to me were those that respond to specific needs, whether from the finalist’s personal or community life. I highly encourage anyone in Ottawa to attend. There are [public viewings throughout the week](http://cwsf.youthscience.ca/parents-and-visitors){:link}, including one after work on Wednesday. It’s neat to meet students from across Canada—you’ll doubtless be inspired by the range of projects on display.

All the best for the week ahead!

—Lucas
