Sometimes it’s not altogether clear how product management differs from project management. The terms are so similar, it can be hard for folks familiar with the latter to understand the former (and vice versa!). Some of my go-to clarifications emphasize 



## Ursula Franklin on production vs organic growth
> Growth occurs; it is not made. Within a growth model, all that human intervention can do is to discover the best conditions for growth and then try to meet them. (20)

> A production model is different in kind. Here things are not grown but made, and made under conditions that are, at least in principle, entirely controllable. If in practice such control is not complete or completely successful, then there is an assumption, implicit in the model itself, that improvements in knowledge, design, and organization can occur so that all essential parameters will become controllable. Production, then, is predictable, while growth is not. There is something comforting in a production model—everything seems in hand, nothing is left to chance—while growth is always chancy. (20–21)

> Production models are perceived and constructed without links into a larger context. This allows the use of a particular model in a variety of situations. At the same time such an approach discounts and disregards all effects arising from the impact of the production activity on its surroundings. ... Such _externalities_ are considered irrelevant to the activity itself and are therefore the business of someone else. Think of a work situation, a production line. There are important factors—such as pollution or the physical and mental health of the workers—which in the production model are considered other people’s problems. They are externalities. (21)

> It is worthwhile stopping for a minute to see whether we ought not to think far more in terms of growth models rather than production models, even though today production models are almost the only guides for public and private discussions. It is instructive to realize how often in the past the production model has supplanted the growth model as a guide for public and private actions, even in areas in which the growth model might have been more fruitful or appropriate. (21–22)

> The real world of technology seems to involve an inherent trust in machines and devices (“production is under control”) and a basic apprehension of people (“growth is chancy, one can never be sure of the outcomes”). (25)

> A common denominator of technological planning has always been the wish to adjust parameters to maximize efficiency and effectiveness. Underlying the plans has been a production model, and production is typically planned to maximize gain. In such a milieu it is easy to forget that not everything is plannable. Actually, most things are properly described by a growth model—and that means many activities of living—and are ultimately not playable. (79–80)

> Women in particular have developed such schemes over the centuries—arrangements that are not a surrender to randomness, but an allotment of time and resources based on situational judgements. ... What makes them so different is that holistic strategies are, more often than not, intended to minimize disaster rather than to maximize gain. (80)

> A crucial distinction here is the place of context. Attempts to minimize disaster require recognition and a profound understanding of context. Context is not considered as stable and invariant; on the contrary, every response induces a counter-responses which changes the situation so that the next steps and decisions are taken within an altered context. Traditional planning, on the other hand, assumes a stable context and predictable responses. (81)

## PM (industrial vs sensible-scale agricultural)

Project management borrows from the industrial assembly line. You move from start to finish—at the end, you’re done work, and the thing is built. If issues occur with the result, you re-apply the process.

Product management, on the other hand, borrows from agrarian cultivation (thinking here of the tradition described by Wendell Berry, Aldo Leopold, and so on). Work follows a regular rhythm, continuously progressing toward “done” before starting again—delivering value all along the way. You deal with issues constantly, as they come up, though they’re usually at a smaller scale. And you keep at it indefinitely.

(An aside: it’s telling that, when tools fail, people develop “hacky” workarounds. This is the growth model responding to the standardized output of the production process—the output doesn’t necessarily account for context, so people hack it to suit their life.)



- other important things!
	- emphasizing the people and their environment—seeing them as people, and treating them as such

## application to governance more generally?

