Today’s clouds seem to extend to my mind. Some notes:

- Yesterday I visited Library and Archives Canada and a branch of the Library of Parliament. Today, I’ll tour the National Arts Centre. Behind-the-scenes access (or, in the case of the Library of Parliament, public access) to these locations is extended once a year, during Doors Open. An initiative coordinated by the [Ontario Heritage Trust](https://www.heritagetrust.on.ca/), Doors Open encourages us to visit spaces we might not otherwise. There’s usually a historical bent to the locations—it warms my heart to see and hear folks walking around the city discussing its histories.
- Visiting the Library and Archives and the Library of Parliament yesterday cemented in my mind the value of beautiful public spaces that are easily accessible. Library and Archives, beautiful in a faded glory sort of way, is publicly accessible, but it requires a little bit of prior knowledge. The Library of Parliament, on the other hand, is closed to the public. (I have an intuitive dislike of exceedingly expensive architectural projects funded by the public that are then accessible to exceedingly few people.) Touring these places furthered my interest in the Ottawa Central Public Library project—it’s meant to be a place for all, and [you can participate in its design](https://ottawacentrallibrary.ca/get-involved).

I meant to have more to say than this, but here we are. As always, I encourage you to visit your libraries (public or otherwise) as often as you like. They’re wonderful spaces that deserve your support.

All the best for the week ahead!

Lucas