Though our tools imply that time is linear (the date, it’s always going up!), I sometimes find it helpful to view it as cyclical.

It’s helpful specifically when I need to ground myself relative to my emotions. Whether feeling especially up or down, it’s good to remember that the other will also come, soon enough. The peak transforms into a slump. But I also try to remember things that pull me from the slump—bypassing the waiting, when I feel up to it.

This afternoon, I fell into a bit of a slump. Low energy, low motivation, and so on. Today’s is no doubt amplified by a late night/early morning and pressure changes from the changing weather.

Given this, I’m not in a great position to _think_ out a newsletter. So instead I’ll share some of the things I did to (kinda) pull me up and awake:

- [Watched _Still Standing_](https://gem.cbc.ca/season/still-standing/season-5/8ce2c191-cd01-4520-af15-1b48e8c79b39) – a glorious show that has me thinking about small communities and sensible growth
- [Perused a Twitter thread of the world’s parliament buildings](https://twitter.com/AFaulds/status/1178695820998320128) – I love buildings that house government institutions
- [Toyed with historical data on Canadian parliamentarians](https://github.com/lchski/parliamentarians-analysis) – there’ll be much more to share from this in the future (teaser: five Canadian parliamentarians had been involved in the American Civil War!)

And, maybe most importantly, not pushing myself! Sometimes when you’re feeling _meh_ it’s best to give yourself some time to rest. So that’s the plan—no work today, just puttering about.

All the best for the week ahead—next week’s Thanksgiving, so it may be a short letter then, too, but who knows. Talk more then!

Lucas