Hello there!

I’ve been squirrelling away on a paper today, hence the late(ish) hour. (But it’s an interesting one! Comparing civic tech to the American tradition of voluntary associations. But also I probably bit off more than I can do justice to, so I’m slaloming between agonizing over doing it right and doing the work, however compromised it feels. Y’know.)

Bars reserve their highest quality liquor for their top shelf. Me, I put my dearest books on mine. My top shelf holds [the books that currently speak to or represent me best](https://lucascherkewski.com/study/library-communications-tool/).

Moving from left to right, here they are:

1. _The Shape of Design_, Frank Chimero
2. _The Ursula Franklin Reader_, Ursula Franklin
3. _The Real World of Technology_, Ursula Franklin
4. _How to Tell When You’re Tired_, Reg Theriault
5. _Field Notes from a Catastrophe_, Elizabeth Kolbert
6. _The Once and Future World_, J.B. MacKinnon
7. _H is for Hawk_, Helen Macdonald
8. _The Shepherd’s Life_, James Rebanks
9. _The Shallows_, Nicholas Carr
10. _Libraries of the Future_, J.C.R. Licklider (“Lick” to his friends)
11. _Essays_, Michel de Montaigne (two editions sit on my top shelf, both gifted to me by dear friends)
12. _How to Live_, Sarah Bakewell
13. _Meditations_, Marcus Aurelius
14. _Dreams from My Father_, Barack Obama
15. _Thoreau_, Laura Dassow Walls
16. _Against the Current_, Pierre Elliott Trudeau
17. _Complete Poems of Robert Frost_, Robert Frost
18. _New and Selected Poems_, Mary Oliver
19. _Swan_, Mary Oliver
20. _Finding My Elegy_, Ursula K. Le Guin
21. “This is Water”, David Foster Wallace

That written, I realize that some are due to move. _The Shepherd’s Life_, though I’m still a fan, hasn’t drawn my hand for some time. And I’ve developed a conflicted relationship with _Meditations_—it’s too unyielding compared to my current approach to life.

What’ll go in their place? Possibly _In altre parole_ by Jhumpa Lahiri, or _The Library at Night_ by Alberto Manguel, or _How to Do Nothing_ by Jenny Odell, or _Seven Fallen Feathers_ by Tanya Talaga, or _My Life in Middlemarch_ by Rebecca Mead, or or or... Nearly endless possibilities.

Fiction doesn’t seem to find a place on my top shelf, though poetry does. There’s certainly fiction I enjoy—_Howards End_ by E.M. Forster, _Ignorance_ by Milan Kundera, _The Neapolitan Novels_ by Elena Ferrante, Paddington novels, Ursula K. Le Guin novels, and so on—but it feels harder to elevate to that shelf than a non-fiction book or anthology. Perhaps they lend themselves better to perusing than do novels.

And that’s mostly how I use this shelf. To peruse. To remind myself of who I’ve been, who I am, who I want to be—me, through [time’s triptych](https://lucascherkewski.com/hit-and-miss/69-returning-home/).

We’re approaching the end of the year, always a time for reflection. Apologies if the next few letters are slower, more pensive, more personal! I’ll be back in Waterloo later this week—and would love, as always, to get together, if that’s where you call home.

Regardless, I’d be curious to hear about your top shelf of books, literal or metaphorical. Which books are dearest to you? It’d be an honour to hear.

In the meantime, all the best for the week ahead.

Lucas