> The people along the sand  
> All turn and look one way.  
> They turn their back on the land.  
> They look at the sea all day.
>
> …
>
> The land may vary more;  
> But wherever the truth may be—  
> The water comes ashore,  
> And the people look at the sea.

These lines from Robert Frost’s “Neither Out Far Nor In Deep” often come to mind while I walk the Ottawa River pathway below Parliament Hill. To one side is a steep hill covered in trees; to the other is a flat stretch of water.

I often wonder why I’m drawn to look at the water instead of the hill. Perhaps its perpetual motion, its constant drive _forward_, speaks to me when I’m feeling directionless.

When the river froze over this year, with snow piling up on the ice, I found myself turning from the river toward the hill—from the water to the land. I scanned the hill for signs of life all winter, seeking a chipmunk or a squirrel or a bird, something to give me that hint of activity that the river’s moving water otherwise provides.

I had little success until recently. In the past few weeks, I’ve seen and heard life in that hill. Twice in the last week, I saw woodpeckers among the trees. Yesterday, walking with some friends, we stopped to watch and listen. (Intuitively, I think there’s something to learn from an animal that repeatedly bangs its head against a tree, though what that lesson is I can’t yet articulate.)

Despite today’s ugly snow, there are signs of the changing seasons. Yesterday’s morning walk started out on ice, moved through slush, and ended in puddles. The hour jumping forward and yesterday’s melt are all signs of spring, and all that season brings.

I don’t think I’m yet ready for winter to be over, but time moves on regardless—sometimes we need to catch ourselves up, ready or not. All the best for the week ahead.

Lucas