Buses in Ottawa are privileged. Not only do they benefit from the usual bus allowances—mandatory yielding, frequent curtsied stopping, and so on—they also have exclusive access to an extensive network of dedicated lanes and roads. The Transitway, in operation since the 1980s, is a series of connected bus-only roads.

Over the last few years, this network has had its central spine disrupted. The tracks or the city’s new LRT replace the east/west lanes of the Transitway through the downtown neighbourhoods. Next weekend, the LRT will open to the public, after more than a year of missed deadlines. In the coming weeks, most of the system’s routes will shift to account for this new high-capacity backbone.

One of the routes that will change is the 16. Compared to some, it’ll change little: where now it runs from St. Paul University in the east to Britannia Park Beach in the west, it will soon be split midway, at Tunney’s Pasture. The 16 is the quintessential local route: it takes a winding path through some of the city’s oldest neighbourhoods, tending toward common roads over the Transitway, stopping 98 times on a variety of small side streets. A colleague of mine praises its route as a leisurely tour of an older Ottawa.

I rode the 16 today from end to end, wanting to soak it in before the upcoming changes. (Plus, I had a free afternoon, a luxury I don’t foresee for the coming months.) From my place in Sandy Hill, I walked down to St. Paul, riding all the way to Britannia before walking back. It was a great afternoon and evening to myself, combining two different ways of seeing the city, by vehicle and by foot.

There are many ways to travel and see a place: by car, by bike, by foot. The most distinguishing factor between these three might be speed—and with speed goes proximity. The slower you go, the closer you get. With a car, you can get a feel for many places quickly. A bus can do the same, with your experience depending on whether it’s an express or local route.

As you can probably guess, walking is by far my favourite way to meet a place. The ability to stop and look deeper without concern is truly special. Walking is also one of the easiest ways to dig deep into where you are—to practice the kind of attentive “doing nothing” that Jenny Odell describes in [_How to Do Nothing_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42771901-how-to-do-nothing). (A book I wholly and enthusiastically recommend. As Mandy Brown describes, “[it embodies a kind of lucidity that makes you think you already knew what it was telling you, and just needed to be reminded of it](http://aworkinglibrary.com/reading/how-to-do-nothing/).”)

That said, the bus is also a good option. It’s great to support public transit, especially in a time of troubling trends in housing affordability (pushing the affordable housing further from walkable cores). Particularly in Ottawa, the bus offers a decent way to get to unfamiliar parts of the city—despite understandable concerns with commuter service, it works well if you’re not in too much a hurry.

If you’re looking for a good way to pass an afternoon, I recommend coupling a bus ride to an unfamiliar quarter with a walk thereabouts. It was a lovely end to a weekend. All the best in the week ahead!