I love libraries. I think about them a lot, and they feature prominently in my writing, whether [in my newsletter](https://lucascherkewski.com/hit-and-miss/4-loving-libraries/) or [on my blog](https://lucascherkewski.com/study/library-communications-tool/). (Before working there, I once [compared my current place of work to a library](https://lucascherkewski.com/study/cds-show-and-tell/), a comparison about which I now have a more nuanced perspective.)

So it’s fitting to use the library as a platform from which to dive into today’s topic.

Libraries ([like bookstores](https://lithub.com/on-the-experience-of-entering-a-bookstore-in-your-forties-vs-your-twenties/)) offer us glimpses of past paths not chosen, of deeper understandings of the present, and of potential futures. Seeing a title on the shelves suggests something to us—the joy of browsing comes precisely from the chance discovery or rediscovery, from our being pushed into a work—and all its ideas—that we wouldn’t have thought of of our own accord. [TODO integrate "what's my library for"]

This is true of physical libraries, like that of my local public library, of my university, or of my own apartment. But how well does it hold up for digital libraries? In principle, a digital library shares the potential of its physical predecessor. But in practice, it falls short.

What distinguishes a physical library from a digital one? In the former, each item in the collection has a physical presence—it is _visible_. In the latter, no item has a physical presence—each item is invisible until called forth by the digital system.

Certainly this offers some potential advantages: a digital library can be ordered and reordered with relatively little effort, via either algorithm-powered search or human curation; in terms of its contents, a digital library can store immense amounts of information in an infinitesimally tiny physical space; these contents can be more easily shared, duplicated and distributed via the internet.

But I think the invisibility of digital files, this lack of physical presence, removes from digital libraries the essential quality that makes physical ones so wonderful. It’s much harder to browse a digital library—whether of books, of music, of movies, or so on—than it is a physical one. The unintentional broadening of the mind, the accidental discovery of the adjacent idea—these are harder to accomplish with a digital library, usually searched rather than browsed.

I’m a fan of digital libraries. I think their benefits, as earlier noted, are considerable. But I’ve not yet figured out how to carry over the browsing experience enabled by physical objects. I’ve tried to go the other way, making physical objects to represent the digital music and movies I most care about, to include them in my physical library, but the scale of my digital library makes it difficult to even begin choosing what to make physical. (Though perhaps this is [another argument for scaling down](https://om.co/2019/01/02/why-we-need-to-slow-time-and-scale-down/).)

I’m happy to offer some counterarguments to my own, if this can really be called an argument. The [magic of the hyperlink](https://adactio.com/articles/10887) enables a browsing experience on the web—though it’s different from that of a physical library, where you have more of an ability to step back and survey the contents you’re browsing, browsing the web is a magical experience of its own. Furthermore, the benefits of physicality could be more directly translated to a digital library through a better interface and a more intentional approach to browsing from the user. But therein lies the magic of the physical library: you don’t need to _try_ to browse; rather, it’s the activity that results naturally from the structure’s form.

Digital libraries are here to stay, but I don’t think we should be so quick to dismiss physical libraries. To find some way to transfer that last quality of the physical library, the joy of browsing physical objects, to the digital library, that’s the dream—but until then, I’ll stick with my stacks of books, and their potential accidental for discovery and rediscovery.