I’d like to continue on [last week’s theme of talking about the words we use and the words we avoid](https://lucascherkewski.com/hit-and-miss/77-words-i-avoid/).

To conclude that issue, I wrote this:

> We unconsciously edit our potential conversations all the time, by editing what we incorporate into our lives. Making this process conscious and extending it to the words we use doesn’t seem so bad. Especially if it stops you from hurting someone else.
>
> So I recommend you pay attention, to both the world and yourself. Edit constantly—you’ll be better for it. All the best for the week ahead.

These paragraphs were the first time in that issue that I used “you”. I’d snuck a “we” in earlier, but here it was much more direct. I struggled to write these paragraphs with those words—in the first person plural and second person—because they shifted the tone of the piece. Using these persons moves the writing from a reflective, personal position to a prescriptive one—instead of me sharing what I do, I’m suggesting what you and others _should_ do.

My view on the merits of those grammatical persons oscillates. (Let’s overlook the third person. One doesn’t care much for it anymore, at least in the contexts about which I’m writing.)

I don’t want to force my thoughts on others. (But, uh, thanks for subscribing and allowing my thoughts to land in your inbox—I appreciate that you think them worthwhile.) I certainly don’t want to imply that I have it figured out, nor that anybody else should follow my example. I also don’t want to unintentionally exclude or overlook differences—using “we” or “you” can grate if you don’t feel you’re part of the group to which the author refers.

I—I, I, I! ([ay yi yi](http://mentalfloss.com/article/52790/where-did-phrase-aye-yai-yai-come))—want all those things. So _I_ generally turn to the first person singular, as _I’m_ doing right now. I have thoughts, I write them down, you maybe read them and maybe agree or not. And that’s cool—evidently I’ve made some peace with that.

But then, at various points, I’ve thought about [ThinkUp](https://web.archive.org/web/20160324133545/https://www.thinkup.com/). ThinkUp was ([RIP](https://medium.com/@anildash/the-end-of-thinkup-e600bc46cc56)) a service that gave you unusual analytics about your social media usage. One stat in particular comes to mind: the % of your tweets from the last week containing the words “I”, “me”, “my”, “mine”, or “myself”. Profiling this stat, ThinkUp asked, “Are you talking about yourself too much?”

See, this is also something I’m hesitant about. What do I have to say? Why _do_ I (_points at newsletter, blog, and so on_) talk about myself so much? Existential questions about writing and self-centredness and life abound.

Then I think of Henry David Thoreau, and his celebration of speaking to personal experience:

> Thoreau wisely stepped back from writing exposés of his friends. Indeed, he was done writing about other men. Instead he would offer what he wanted of any lecturer: “a more or less simple & sincere account of his life.”

(From page 245 of Laura Dassow Walls’s splendid _Henry David Thoreau: A Life_. I know Thoreau was a white guy with all the privilege that brings, and that that might seem to diminish the soundness of his advice here, but the nuanced argument of Walls’s biography makes it hard to reject Thoreau out of hand.)

Indeed, what do we have to offer but our own experience? To speak on and about someone else’s is misleading and inconsiderate—that’s their experience to share, they know it better than we do, and we should leave it at that. Similarly, we should hesitate toward “you”—it suggests that we know how to live life better than does the other person.

Oh, shoot—I’ve slipped into the first person plural, using “we” and “our”. Should I step back, to “I” and “my”? Maybe not. Maybe, if we take “we” as does Rebecca Mead (from page 54 of _My Life in Middlemarch_), we find an acceptable middle ground between the self-centredness of “I” and the haughtiness of “you”:

> We’re wiser now, we think, than to believe in the authoritative inclusiveness of the first person plural; feminist or Marxist or post-colonial literary theory has made us conscious of perspectives that have been excluded by, or don’t care to be encompassed by, its embrace. We may even be writing from one of those perspectives ourselves. (I humbly submit: when I write “we,” I mean by it “I, and hopefully you.”)

Let’s run with that humble submission. “We” and its affiliates can exclude, yes. But they can also soften the brash egotism of “I”. Employed with consideration, they suggest that we’ve thought about our situation or our thoughts and nuanced them in such a way as to be more widely relevant. They suggest that what works for _me_ could also work for _you_—that what’s good enough for me is also so for you. While “we” and “our” can exclude, they can also include. They’re words for sharing.

But of course, I don’t know. Maybe you do, and so I intentionally use “I” in that sentence. I’m here, happily wallowing in language. I invite you to join me sometime—whether in an inbox or in person—to turn this “I” into a “we” that dances to this theme or others.

All the best for the week ahead!