Hullo there!

I’m writing this mid-afternoon Saturday. Delayed-newsletter-sending gods permitting, you’ll get this some time Sunday morning. I can’t write this at my normal time, because my mom and I are doing a half marathon together tomorrow morning (today, this morning—excuse my tense mishaps). (Walking, to be clear.)

This is newsletter 90, and in some ways I’m really feeling that number today. Over the last week or so, my body has gone through a range of random aches. A week ago, I was expecting to drop out of this weekend’s race, but right now I’m feeling well enough to carry through. At the least, I’ll walk it with my mom as far as I can go without pain.

If you’d asked me a few weeks ago, I would’ve told you that I intended to walk this race on my own. I saw it as a challenge to myself: to spend three and a half hours walking at a steady pace, with nothing but my own thoughts. Maybe this was a lingering impulse from what I felt I needed when I agreed to walk the race, back in the winter.

Since then, though, my plan has changed. Two weeks ago, my walking buddy and I walked 18 km at our race pace. There was no longer any doubt that I could attain and maintain the required speed. I’ve also spent plenty enough time in my own head to know that three and a half hours isn’t trouble, either. I decided, then, to walk it alongside my mom, who’s also registered in the event.

My mom and I are similar in many respects. We both keep piles of book nearby. We both have an interest in the human side of public service jobs, of directly knowing and working with those you serve. We both value and make time for family and friends. (This last one especially is a value shared by both my parents.) I look forward to the chance to spend a few hours with her, walking and talking.

More abstractly, I look forward to walking this race _together_, accomplishing it not as individuals but as a team. Further, as a team that’s part of a larger community. Many family friends are in town from Waterloo—from my parents’ walking group—all here to walk in this weekend’s events. This small community of folks is a favourite of mine—knowing that we’re all participating together warms my heart.

I’ll admit, the larger scale of the Race Weekend—the thousands of participants, the crowds of people, the cheering, and so on—doesn’t appeal to me. It’s something I’m steeling myself for.

1. individual (with buddy)
2. partnership/team
3. larger community
4. society (partial rejection, slow embrace)