Hello!

I’m briefly back in Waterloo to celebrate my birthday, so (out of necessity, out of luxury) I’m driving a lot and listening to the radio. The radio station I prefer, boom 973, is hosting a “[Totally 80s Family Day Long Weekend](https://www.boom973.com/totally-80s-family-long-weekend/)”.

On Friday, the morning host named some TV shows and movies from the 80s. I smiled as I realized how many 80s shows and movies were major parts of _my_ (very much not 80s) childhood. Some favourite movies from the decade:

- _Ghostbusters_
- _Dead Poets Society_
- _Die Hard_
- _Trading Places_
- _Lethal Weapon_
- _Footloose_
- _Field of Dreams_
- _Beverly Hills Cop_
- _St. Elmo’s Fire_ (and all the other John Hughes movies, with all appropriate caveats)
- _When Harry Met Sally_
- _The Princess Bride_

Admittedly, some of these movies haven’t aged well, or need to be taken with a major grain of salt. But I think that each of these shows (except maybe the last one) still hold up well:

- _M\*A\*S\*H_ (not technically an 80s show, but the last few seasons and the finale were in the right decade)
- _Star Trek: The Next Generation_
- _Golden Girls_
- _Murder, She Wrote_
- _The A-Team_

It’s interesting how the movies, TV shows, books, and so on that we appreciate when we’re younger can sort of crystallize within us, becoming a comfortable home to which we return repeatedly (or randomly). I don’t much keep up with new TV shows or movies (except for _Kim’s Convenience_ and _Schitt’s Creek_), but [I always enjoy making time to rewatch an old favourite](https://lucascherkewski.com/hit-and-miss/54-repeated-experiences/). This isn’t to say that I won’t return to movies I’ve watched recently, nor do I want to overindulge in nostalgic celebration of childhood, but there is _something_ to your much younger years that continues to shape you. Probably that’s growing up or something, I dunno.

---

Because I’ve already shared two lists with you, and the world lives trios, here’s another list of some links to read:

- Maria Popova (_Brain Pickings_) shares some of [poet David Whyte’s redefinitions of concepts like anger, forgiveness, and maturity](https://www.brainpickings.org/2015/05/15/david-whyte-consolations-anger-forgiveness-maturity/). (I [excerpted and annotated this link](https://lucascherkewski.com/links/2019/02/11/20-51-brainpickings-maria-popova-david-whyte-anger-forgiveness-maturity/).
- Rich Ziade describes [how Postlight (a digital services studio) structures their projects](https://postlight.com/trackchanges/mountainsides), with a metaphor and visual that I’ve found useful for understanding _:waves hands:_ agile product management.
- Austin Kleon outlines [some thoughts on self-help as a genre](https://austinkleon.com/2018/08/15/5-thoughts-on-self-help/), with his usual charming mix of tasteful quotations and thoughtful annotations. (On top of the “self-help” books that Kleon references, like Aurelius’s _Meditations_ and Rilke’s _Letters to a Young Poet_, I suggest Anne Lamott’s _Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life_.)

With all that, I’m off! Tomorrow I’m taking the train back to Ottawa and reading the whole way—delightful. All the best for the week ahead!

Lucas