Hello there!

A happy Sunday to you. I'm writing after a weekend of coffees, walks, movies, reading, and _Don Giovanni_. I hope yours was equally nourishing.

One of the great pleasures of my job is that I get to work with my good friend and inspiring colleague, [Sean](https://twitter.com/sboots/). When we sat together, we’d often engage in random side of desk conversations. (They were literally side of desk—we’d lean over to see each other without our monitors in the way.)

During these chats, we’d discuss our latest adventures in (digital) government (reform). We often develop small theoretical frames to explain what we experience. (He recently moved to the Yukon, so we still pontificate—but now over a much greater distance of time and space.)

I wanted to share one of those theoretical frames with you tonight. I wrote it up, but realized that it became too long for this newsletter—so I’ve moved it to its own post. It’s a model Sean originally developed, one I find quite applicable for understanding organizational change. If organizational change interests you (and not just in government, but anywhere that’s vaguely bureaucratic), I encourage you to [read about the model, which he graciously gave me the go-ahead to write up](https://lucascherkewski.com/study/people-positions/).

Instead, I’ll share with you a much less profound model that I use to explain what we mean when we talk about “policy” at work. Less profound, but also more newsletter sized. If you’re curious about what I do at work, read on!

There are two big buckets of “policy” in the government:

1. Program policy. What challenges the government takes on, and how it responds to those challenges. For example, the government decided that [to improve people’s experience of government services, it would create the Canadian Digital Service](https://digital.canada.ca/).
2. Administrative—or management—policy. _How_ the government does its business, basically. For example, [before using artificial intelligence to make decisions, a government team needs to complete an “algorithmic impact assessment”](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32592) (how risky is this AI?).

The latter bucket, administrative policy, is my daily playground. Working in (digital) government (reform), the rules that shape how teams work are of utmost importance to me.

But administrative policies aren’t always as easy to find as you’d expect. In truth, I find that administrative policy takes three forms. Get ready for a lot of Ps (awwwww [y]ah awesome alliteration!):

1. Policy as **paper**. This is the most straightforward. This is when a policy requirement is clearly written down in a widely available, easy to access place. [For example, the government’s policy suite page.](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/index-eng.aspx) Generally, these have some weight behind them: [if you don’t comply, there may be consequences](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=17151).
2. Policy as **process or practice**. Sometimes teams or organizations do things a certain way. They’ve done so for a long while and it seems to work. The process becomes a policy of its own—even if it’s not written down, or the details widely accessible.
3. Policy as **pronouncement**. Sometimes people say stuff and it sticks. Often this is the case of a senior leader—or someone with a loud voice and little shame—stating a preference. That preference goes unchallenged or unexamined, and it becomes accepted as-is, calcifying into a policy of its own.

For extra fun, policy in these three forms can exist in “the centre” (responsible for making rules for the whole of government), in each department, and in divisions of each department. Teams, too, can have their own policies. (Individuals could, too, though that may be stretching the model a bit.)

Some of these policy forms carry more legitimacy than others. Generally speaking, paper is more legitimate than process, and pronouncement is rarely “legitimate”. (But legitimacy can differ from what’s respected, an important distinction.)

When trying to help a delivery team—in CDS or in a line department—do its work, my job is to understand this landscape: policy as paper, as practice, and as pronouncement, from the centre down the layers to different teams. It’s a fun dig, but at times defies understanding. A frame like this helps me situate myself—maybe it can be of use in your life, too, whether you’re in a big bureaucratic machine like me or operating at a more personal scale.

This was probably a more niche letter than normal, but I hope a tidbit or two spoke to you! All the best for the week ahead.

Lucas