No, _you_ spent two and a half hours diving into digitized microfilm this morning instead of, I dunno, enjoying the sunshine or something. (If you’re curious, it was [1939 correspondence on the wording of the plaque for Dominion Archivist Arthur Doughty’s statue](http://heritage.canadiana.ca/view/oocihm.lac_reel_c3744/613?r=0&s=4). I don’t know why, either.)

Being back in Waterloo means I’m around the _television_. I don’t have a TV up in Ottawa, just a monitor and speakers to plug a computer into. Streaming and so on, you know how it is these days. But in Waterloo—in Waterloo, there’s a TV. Hundreds of channels! Pre-scheduled content! News segments! Ads! A whole other way of accessing information and entertainment.

Anyway, I’ve been using that TV to (re)watch Star Trek. A new series, _Lower Decks_ premiered the other week, and it’s been fun to watch it take shape. A fellow Trek fan friend of mine described it as something like “Star Trek where the crew are (mostly) really excited to be on a starship, doing space things”, and I can’t think of a better description.

- It’s got good references, while not being overdone.
- It’s (thus far) very episodic, which is my jam—so much of classic Star Trek for me is about the somewhat self-contained episodes, focusing more on character development than massive season-length storylines.
- It’s not cinematic, because it’s animated! Maybe I’m just a grump whose TV preferences haven’t caught up from the 80s, but I’m not much into cinematic TV. Hence my penchant for rewatching older shows with a homier aesthetic.

Watching _Lower Decks_ has been part of rewatching Star Trek more broadly.

- CTV’s Sci-Fi channel shows something like nine episodes a day, Monday through Friday, with each day of the week dedicated to a particular series (the _Original Series_ through _Enterprise_). They’re played chronologically, so you can dip into each series and watch a sequence of episodes. 
- What I love about this is that, unlike with streaming, I can’t control _which_ episode is on at a given time—if I want to watch Trek, I watch what’s on.
- This way I get re-exposed to all the weird corners of the franchise, including mediocre episodes. When I stream, I have to _decide_ which episode(s) to put on, which then triggers a “Must decide on the best episode to rewatch!” process that limits which episodes I see.
- Of course I could replicate this with streaming, but there’s something about it being built into the nature of the medium—broadcast TV—that makes it much easier to accept here.

And all this stuff about Star Trek reminds me of some thoughts I had the other week on _world-building_. A few folks at work had recommended I read [N.K. Jemisin’s _Broken Earth_ trilogy](http://nkjemisin.com/books/the-fifth-season/), which I did a few weeks ago. It’s awesome—you should read it. The subject matter is heavy, but in a compelling way—I can’t say enough good things about these books.

Jemisin is a master at world-building. 

- world building
	- reading Broken Earth trilogy was great, but already by end of first book I was annoyed (in a sense)—there were only two books left
	- ST offers hundreds of hours of worldbuilding to dip into
	- same with non-fiction: here's our world, it's built and continues to be rebuilt, dip in at your leisure!