I’m cozied up in bed, looking out a big window on snow-covered trees, a few birds hopping form branch to branch, doing the quiet work of staying alive on this bright, cold winter’s day.

Life can sometimes roll along to a predictable rhythm. At the scale of a year, I think, there are patterns to our days, things we think about or do with some regularity.

[This time of year seems often to bring me to Milan Kundera’s _Ignorance_, for example.](https://lucascherkewski.com/hit-and-miss/69-returning-home/) I discussed it with a friend the other week, connecting it to _Circe_, a book I’d just finished reading. And I recently tried to explain why I like Springsteen—well, [turns out I wrote about just that almost two years ago](https://lucascherkewski.com/study/springsteen-broadway/). Something about the heavy snow and quiet streets that inspires reflection, I suppose.

This’ll be my last note for 2020. It’s been quite a year, hasn’t it? We’re still here, you and I, and for that I’m grateful. If anything, this year has reminded me of two things:

- For me, personally, it’s okay to not expect too much—small wins, they’re real and they’re worth it.
- “We”, people together, can pull off incredible feats—think of what it took to put a vaccine in arms less than a year after a pandemic was declared. Of course that vaccine wasn’t just developed this year: it built on decades of prior research. But we _can_ accomplish incredible feats, even if that sometimes seems highly improbable.

It’s also driven home how important quiet, regular things are for me. I certainly miss the loud, bright days of pre-pandemic life. But I’m okay with the small, with the grounded—they’re good for me, too.

The days ahead will remain quiet. My site’s asking for a redesign—time to double down on making my “[digital house a home](https://colly.com/articles/this-used-to-be-our-playground)”—and I’ve a book or two to get through. And I reckon the new year will bring more of the same.

But I’d like to hear from you, if you’re up for it! Normally I’d spend these weeks visiting with friends—let’s adapt that tradition. How are you doing these days? Have you read or watched or listened to anything that struck you? Gone for any interesting walks, had any interesting conversations? Send me an email, send me a text, give me a call—let’s share in our quiet days and remember the joy of each other’s company.

All the best for the week—and year—ahead. Sending you a big virtual embrace, my friend.

Lucas