_Six weeks ago was the end of January._

_My head thinks February just started._

_I have to remind myself that I was home for a whole week, for my birthday, in the middle of February._

_I struggle to realize that that was a month ago._

Time is doing weird things these days. Or, more precisely, my perception of time is doing weird things. Too much information intake, probably, too many small tidbits, whizzing by and accelerating my experience of time.

Though, of course, some things are moving genuinely fast right now, like that damn virus.

I’m not going to speak much about COVID-19 this week. It feels like the only thing I’m reading about, well, anywhere, and I’d like to offer a respite from that if that’s what you need. Goodness knows I do. (Briefly, though—it’s a very real thing. Low risk today can become high risk tomorrow. Prepare as best you can; reach out to your people and figure out how you can help each other; accept that preparing is rational, not panicked.)

[TODO: add some links for that damn virus]


---

> What's kept me if not focused but productively redirected is beginning and ending almost every day [...] is reading history. Recent history. It's a fucked up churn out there, and letting social media begin and end the day only makes surrendering to the churn more automatic, helpless-feeling, and without end. (These are also the excuses you tell yourself, when you are writing a book: someone in thirty years might need it, so even if it feels hopeless now, keep to it.)

Melissa Gira Grant wrote that almost three years ago, in [*Friday Letter*](https://tinyletter.com/melissagiragrant) 0064. She was describing her experience after Trump's inauguration, but it feels just as relevant today.

[TODO: find the email this is from]

[to think—just a week ago, the Women's March happened!]



Let’s escape the present and dive into the past.

[TODO: history it up—provide links, share stories, help folks remember that we're part of something bigger than the present moment]