Hello! Here’s to you, here’s to 2020—let’s take this one with gusto, shall we? (Or, y’know, with whatever we can muster. I’m here with and for you regardless.)

My morning writing time evaporated when I fell down a rabbit hole of searching the [Library and Archives archival collections catalogue](http://www.bac-lac.gc.ca/eng/collectionsearch/Pages/collectionsearch.aspx) and poking around [digitized microforms in Héritage](http://heritage.canadiana.ca/). What’d I find? Lots of potentially interesting records about postal service in Canada, for the most part. _Update: I just spent another half hour poking around the archival collections. Oops. But also, yay!_ Maybe something for future research and writing.

I wrote this in my phone last night, as I started out on a walk:

> A good walk does not start out warm. It starts cool, or, in the terrible days of summer, comfortable. Then you walk vigorously and warm up, opening a layer or two as you go.

This left me thinking about the qualities of a good walk. In no particular order, here are a few:

- The weather and your outfit allow the walk to carry on indefinitely. Energy is the only major constraint on the duration or distance of the walk.
- It’s got enough quiet in it. Occasional noise (like a busy street) is usually inevitable—and sometimes even welcome!—but a sense of silence or calm definitely enhances the walk.
- Maybe it’s with somebody else. It’s usually nice to share a walk with somebody, but sometimes you need solitude. If there are other people, preferably not too many—unless it’s meant to be a big group, like a walking tour or walking group. The more people, the harder it gets to keep a steady pace or decide where to ramble.

(Apologies if my use of “you” jarred you. [It’s an internal debate of mine.](https://lucascherkewski.com/hit-and-miss/78-i-you-we/))

As you can probably tell, my brain is a bit scattered today. I haven’t had much need to develop a coherent thread of thoughts for a few weeks—that’ll come back, soon enough. To close, then, I’ll share a few interesting links from my recent browsing:

