_The collected answers to last week’s question (What comforts you?) are at the end of the email. There’s a new question this week!_

Hello there!

A friend reminded me this morning of Jenny Odell’s _How to Do Nothing_, which I read last summer. (And mentioned in this newsletter for something like four or five issues in a row.) Among other things, Odell discusses actively not doing things as an action of resistance. With talk of rent strikes, reduced workload syllabi, or other coping mechanisms, many folks seem to be tuning into this idea—resisting the narratives of prosperity through productivity gets easier in troubling times.

As school winds down and work remains part-time, I’ve been trying to carve myself out some proper days of rest (a novelty for me). My constraints for those days are still in flux, but the key is that I shouldn’t be working on things that cause me to log time either to school or to CDS in my time tracking. I’m trying to fill these days with non-computer activities, but I seem always drawn back to it. So it goes.

I haven’t sorted out how to do nothing. Certain things keep drawing me in, like data analysis with structured text (I’m currently [exploring Hansard pre-1901](https://github.com/lchski/his4364-hansard), for a course and [with an eye to facilitating access](https://lucascherkewski.com/hit-and-miss/125-facilitating-access/)), scrolling mindlessly through feeds (which, on the surface, is doing nothing, but that scrolling _does something to me_, and I don’t like it), and so on.

I’ll be honest with you—writing today isn’t coming naturally. Today I’m energized and optimistic, but I’ve struggled to read non-virus things throughout the week. When the reading is slow, so goes the writing. So maybe I’ll cut it off here, and leave with a question (to share the answers here next week): what’s one thing you read recently(ish), not related to the virus, that you enjoyed?

All the best for the week ahead. Talk soon!

Lucas

---

_Here are the responses to last week’s question (What comforts you?). Thanks to all who wrote in!_

S, R, K (combining these together, as they’re not regular newsletter readers): Keeping busy in the kitchen, cooking/baking up a storm. Demolishing an old kitchen. Catching up, watching and listening, reading. Gardening.

R: Playing with numbers in spreadsheets, it helps me refocus and often gives me insights into the numbers I am playing with, be it banking/bills, or retirement, or COVID numbers.

S: I did some plant therapy (and also video games, stardew valley with my partner recently).

C: The thing that has brought me comfort lately is cleaning; having control over something small and the ability to make it better, to see the immediate results of my efforts. 

R: Playing classical music on YouTube and spending hours on the phone and computer getting in touch with friends.

N: I find comfort in talking with the people who are close to me. Whether it be by phone, FaceTime or through WhatsApp, I’m trying to keep in touch with people so that I still feel connected to the world around me.