_nervous laughter_ It’s February!?

I know, I know, talking about how quickly time passes is about as clichéd as talking about the weather. But it really does feel like it’s just zooming along.

I love February—I get to +1 my age (as do some other people who are close to me), it’s consistently cold and snowy (yeah, yeah, but indulge me this, as I suffer all summer long), and the days get longer and longer! I’m glad it’s here, but also shocked that it’s already ¼ gone. As a friend and I often say to one another, _what is tiiiiime!?_

So anyway, let’s talk about the weather.

One of my techniques for making the most of winter is to, as I call it, “chase the sun”. When I see it’s sunny outside, I try to let myself just _go_, to get outside and walk with it fully in my face. If I’m too busy to get out (the working life do be like that sometimes), I’ll try to set up in a sunny corner of the apartment, to bask in it while I can.

Similarly, I tend to view the year in two broad seasons: “walk in the sun” season and “walk in the shade” season. You can guess which months correspond to which season :) When it’s walk in the sun season, a main priority for walks and time outside is to find sunny spots—choosing pathways and routes that won’t be too obstructed by buildings or landscapes. 

Anyhow, we’re firmly in walk in the sun season. Some days it’s overcast all day, and there’s not much we can do about that. But I try to check in throughout each day—have I chased the sun today? If not, I’ll look for the best opportunity, even if it’s just to walk under bright clouds.

I hope you get a chance to chase the sun today, if that’s your thing. While you’re in, you might [enjoy perusing archives.design, “An organized collection of graphic design related items that are available on the Internet Archives compiled by Valery Marier”](https://archives.design/). Or, looking ahead, you might [get a chuckle out of these _Star Trek_ Valentine’s cards](https://twitter.com/eversojuliet/status/1350829071047995393).

All the best for the week ahead!

Lucas