This time next week, the clocks will have changed—sunset will bop an hour later, brightening the evenings [even as we face a few more heavy months](https://ottawa.ctvnews.ca/etches-calls-for-three-more-months-of-physical-distancing-limiting-close-contacts-in-ottawa-1.5335826).

Today marks [the final day of data collection for the _COVID Tracking Project_](https://covidtracking.com/analysis-updates/covid-tracking-project-end-march-7).

For those unfamiliar: the project began in March 2020, when a few journalists and volunteers noticed a lack of consistent, centralized reporting on American COVID cases. Over the past year, it’s grown into a formidable source of information and critical analysis on COVID data reporting—serving for much of that time as the most credible, detailed source of data on the pandemic in the United States.

It was hugely significant:

> It’s hard to understand all the ways that our data—which started with a single spreadsheet—has been used in the world. Two different presidential administrations have cited it in strategic plans, academic and scientific researchers have used it in nearly 800 papers, and it has helped ground media coverage of the pandemic by national, international, and local news outlets. It’s been read into the Congressional record, mentioned in proposed legislation, used repeatedly by lawmakers to demand answers about the pandemic, and cited in numerous federal lawsuits. Amid so much institutional failure, it has been a sustaining force to see regular people all over the country patch this vital data together every day, united in their commitment to their fellow humans.

And it’s coming to an end, because the appropriate government authorities are (finally) stepping up to the task.

Having come up in the civic tech world (which has some overlap with initiatives like the _COVID Tracking Project_) and working now in a digital government shop, stories like this always do something funny to me. On the one hand, I’m amazed and heartened by what can be accomplished when people roll up their sleeves and work thoughtfully, diligently to address some gap. It’s [participation at its finest](https://twitter.com/kerentangyeg/status/1368401870553640961).

On the other hand, those gaps usually reflect government failing to do its job. There can be a myriad reasons why that is—including a civil service, in the civil-est of fashions, obeying directives to not perform a seemingly essential public service. Or it might be that people on the inside of the government desperately want to offer such a service, but don’t have the capacity, whether due to decades of funding cuts or the competing priorities of continuing to offer existing essential services. ([Cyd Harrell captures these dilemmas excellently in her book.](https://cydharrell.com/book/)) Regardless of the reason—and, as noted, there can be many valid ones—as a public servant in the digital government space, I believe strongly in the potential of government to do good for people’s lives, to do right by them. Gaps like these hurt, even when I’m heartened by those who step up to fill them.

---

Erin Kissane, managing editor, published [a weekly update with information on where to find similar data from now on](https://covidtracking.com/analysis-updates/simple-covid-data), as part of the project’s considered approach to winding down its efforts. At the end, crucially, Kissane includes lessons to keep in mind for critical analysis of data (both in general, and COVID-specific). ([Kissane also summarized the post in a Twitter thread, with a few reflections along the way.](https://twitter.com/kissane/status/1367639152129310720))

I cannot say enough good words about this project. Their reporting ought to endure as an example of critical data analysis. Pick almost any of their posts, and you’ll find a nuanced, thoughtful approach to speaking about numbers—numbers which rarely acknowledge the messiness of the world they seek to describe. [Mandy Brown, editorial lead for the project, added a few brief words on the significance of that approach.](https://twitter.com/aworkinglibrary/status/1367615403854282752) (On a side note, [Mandy Brown is available for hire—her “work with me” page captures a model of who I aspire to be](https://aworkinglibrary.com/work-with-me/).)

May we all do such good, at whatever scale we can manage.

---

All the best for the week ahead!

Lucas