Somehow, inexplicably, this is the last weekend in April. (It is explicable, of course—it’s the inexorable march of time.) Well, here we are.

> This is the same week the budget happened. Just FTR.
> 
> ([Rosie Barton on Twitter](https://twitter.com/RosieBarton/status/1385581896852287490))

Heh, indeed it was. [CDS was lucky enough to be included](https://www.budget.gc.ca/2021/report-rapport/p4-en.html#268)—more on that next week.

***

As more people—including many I know—get their first doses of vaccines for COVID-19 (hoorah!), we’re quickly running into a public health pickle. What behaviours should public health officials advise for half-vaccinated individuals?

Due to a combination of limited supply and skyrocketing cases (caused by public health measures lifted too early), much of Canada has adopted a “first dose as soon as possible, spaced out second dose” regimen. First doses offer _some_ level of protection, certainly—but it’s not clear how effective they are versus the full two doses.

To date, public health advice for single-dosed individuals has been to stay the course—stay home, keep the mask on, and so on. This makes sense: we don’t really know how effective the one dose is, the general environment continues to be highly infectious (because 

Of course, this issue is amplified by the dire health context across much of the country, including Ontario. If there’d been more effective public health measures that kept cases low as vaccinations ramped up, we’d be having a different conversation. Or, we could contemplate such a conversation. 



Public health pickle?
- spaced out regimen
- CDC advice on what to do when fully vaccinated—Canada doesn't have equivalent for one dose
- Robyn Urback column etc, ppl will do what they'll do
- Dr. Tam on single dose? https://twitter.com/cmaconthehill/status/1384903082002329607
- pickle:
	- we don't really know what one-dose means (we know it offers some protection, obviously, or we wouldn’t be doing it)
	- we want people to be confident, to think taking the vaccine is worthwhile
	- comms / public messaging reflects our lack of knowledge, our cautiousness
	- what might harm reduction messaging look like? people with one dose may well feel inclined to gather—what advice do we give to them? is it bubbling—strictly—with other one-dosed "households" (see difficulty of age bucketing, younger wouldn't have yet)? can one-dosed grandparents get together with one family? etc
	- similar to policy recommendation from the ON Science Advisory Table (idk which table it really is), that, given people are going to socialize, we should be clear and tell them to do so outside, with masks, two metres apart—it'll happen, give people positive advice to enable safe behaviour!


- social malaise, what to talk about
- not reading as much as I used to

I’ve signed out of Twitter, deleted news apps from my phone. Not the first time I’ve taken these steps, though certainly the first time in a long while. We’ll see how that goes :)

Anyhow. The sun rose at 6 this morning, and it’s setting at 8—14 hour days are upon us, and thank goodness for that.