Folks, it’s been a day—a week—a month. In hard ways, yes, though also in good ways! But I am thoroughly tired. The kind of tired where you’re waiting for the tears to come, but they don’t, then they show up at the most unexpected of moments. We’re back in Ottawa now, after a long stretch mostly on the road, but there’ll be more travels, soon enough.

I’m not following much outside my world right now, with few thoughts to offer there, either. Next week, I hope to have the energy to catalogue a few cool things from the last month, but we’ll have to see. (Maybe there’ll even be… photos!?)

- [Good thoughts on privacy tradeoffs in “Personal Apps” (e.g., journalling tools)](https://www.theverge.com/2023/3/29/23660375/journaling-app-day-one-security-personal-space): “The best ones start with private spaces and then add features from there, instead of starting with a mountain of collaborative features and integrations and then tacking on a privacy policy after the fact. They tend to be subscription-based, which can help align their business with their customers. Many also tend to not be venture capital-backed: several developers I’ve talked to went out of their way to mention refusing to take VC money because taking that money means growing fast and growing fast means making compromises. It’s hard to make a good Personal App when it’s mostly being sold to IT managers.”
- [Commit, then make it fit](https://destroytoday.com/blog/a-home-a-kitchen-and-a-woodshop): ‘Earlier this year, I found myself in a funk with side projects, so I threw my arms up, went to the Makeville website, and booked a class without thinking twice. I knew that if I thought too hard about making the class work around my schedule, it wouldn’t happen, but if I booked it and worked around the class’s schedule, it might work out—and it has! … Rather than waiting for the right time to take a class or go somewhere and end up only thinking about it, I need to just book the class or trip and work the rest of my life around it. This makes me want to fill almost every evening or weekend with something. Then, my day-to-day is less “what do I want to do?”, but instead “what’s next?”—always learning, making, and experiencing.’
- [adrienne maree brown with some incredibly helpful (topical) advice about where to put our attention: on joy, not suffering.](https://adriennemareebrown.net/2023/03/27/attention/)

All the best for the week ahead.

Lucas