---
layout: study--newsletter
title: 'Some books from 2024'
number: '382'
date: '2024-12-29 12:15:00 -0500'
published: true
---

Hello!

Back in Ottawa, cozily ensconced in freezing fog and other “how’d they come up with this” weather phenomena. I woke at 4 this morning and couldn’t sleep for many hours, catching just a brief nap on the couch later in the morning; we’ll blame that for any off-kilter writing today.

I missed the tradition of sharing my reading highlights in the year’s penultimate newsletter, but there’s still today’s issue—the _ultimate_ issue—so, fret not, here we go! As with [last year](https://lucascherkewski.com/hit-and-miss/329-another-year-books/), I no longer track my reading, so I’m doubtless missing a good book or two.

- _Hild_ by Nicola Griffith: A book about the dividends of paying attention, with _deep_ research into medieval material culture. What a world to inhabit—looking forward to _Menewood_, the sequel, which I picked up in paperback a few weeks back.
- _The Dispossessed_ by Ursula K. Le Guin: Looooong time coming reading this book. The product of a deep, inspired imagination, showing what an anarchist society _could_ look like—and revealing some of capitalism’s absurdities in the process.
- _What I Talk About When I Talk About Running_ by Haruki Murakami: Inspired by T’s recommendation of the book, I kept this at the bedside, picking it up to motivate exercise the next day. Sometimes it even worked! (Regardless, Murakami always delighted.)
- _Loving Corrections_ by adrienne maree brown: Just getting into it, but the first few essays already have me stretching my brain (or nodding along intently).
- _Born to Run_ by Bruce Springsteen: Specifically, the audiobook read by Springsteen himself. As with any celebrity memoir, hard to sift the legend from the truth—but that’s maybe less the point than listening to several hours of good story. (Also enjoyed _There Was Nothing You Could Do_ by Steven Hyden, exploring the impact of _Born in the U.S.A._)
- _Watch With Me_ by Wendell Berry: This year, I dipped into Berry’s fiction—I hope to make that dip a dive in 2025. (I’ve fond memories of reading one of these stories perched in Amsterdam’s Oosterdok public library, trying to stay awake during a day-long layover.)

Kudos also to some woodworking texts that shaped my thinking this year, all published by the excellent Lost Art Press:

- [_The Joiner and Cabinet Maker_](https://lostartpress.com/products/the-joiner-and-cabinet-maker-1) by Anonymous, Christopher Schwarz and Joel Moskowitz
- [_The Essential Woodworker_](https://lostartpress.com/products/the-essential-woodworker) by Robert Wearing
- [_The Anarchist’s Design Book_](https://lostartpress.com/products/the-anarchists-design-book) by Christopher Schwarz
- [_Dutch Tool Chests_](https://lostartpress.com/collections/all-books-1/products/dutch-tool-chests) by Megan Fitzpatrick

Finally, two special links to close the year. Both are interactive, a good way to pass the time in this quiet week between year-end holidays:

- [Mundango by Dave Rupert](https://mundango.daverupert.com/), a bingo game for noticing the small things.
- [“Moon” by Bartosz Ciechanowski](https://ciechanow.ski/moon/), an explorer for learning about the Moon and its impact on Earth.

Well, friends, it’s been a time. I hope you’ve been able to find time to rest, or do whatever fills you up. And, if not, I hope there’s been time to enjoy some quieter moments nonetheless. We’ve no idea what tomorrow, let alone the next year will bring—let’s hope simply for all the best for the week and year ahead. Thank you, as always, for reading.

Lucas