---
layout: study--newsletter
title: 'Some poems'
number: '432'
date: '2025-12-14 20:50:00 -0500'
published: true
---

Hi there. Been a rough week, I think it’s fair to say. With much of that squarely at my feet. 

There’ve been quite a number of links read this past week, but, instead, I’ll share some poems.

***

“Dust of Snow”, by Robert Frost

> The way a crow  
> Shook down on me  
> The dust of snow  
> From a hemlock tree
>
> Has given my heart  
> A change of mood  
> And saved some part  
> Of a day I had rued.

***

“Make the Ordinary Come Alive”, by William Martin

> Do not ask your children  
> to strive for extraordinary lives.  
> Such striving may seem admirable,  
> but it is the way of foolishness.  
> Help them instead to find the wonder  
> and the marvel of an ordinary life.  
> Show them the joy of tasting  
> tomatoes, apples, and pears.  
> Show them how to cry  
> when pets and people die.  
> Show them the infinite pleasure  
> in the touch of a hand.  
> And make the ordinary come alive for them.  
> The extraordinary will take care of itself.

([via Sameer](https://www.inthemargins.ca/civil-service))

***

“Let This Darkness Be a Bell Tower”, by Rainer Maria Rilke (translated by Joanna Macy)

> Quiet friend who has come so far,
> 
> feel how your breathing makes more space around you.  
> Let this darkness be a bell tower  
> and you the bell. As you ring,
> 
> what batters you becomes your strength.  
> Move back and forth into the change.  
> What is it like, such intensity of pain?  
> If the drink is bitter, turn yourself to wine.
> 
> In this uncontainable night,  
> be the mystery at the crossroads of your senses,  
> the meaning discovered there.
> 
> And if the world has ceased to hear you,  
> say to the silent earth: I flow.  
> To the rushing water, speak: I am.

([via Krista Tippet of _On Being_](https://onbeing.org/programs/joanna-macy-a-wild-love-for-the-world/))

***

“Wild Geese”, by Mary Oliver

> You do not have to be good.  
> You do not have to walk on your knees  
> For a hundred miles through the desert, repenting.  
> You only have to let the soft animal of your body  
> love what it loves.  
> Tell me about despair, yours, and I will tell you mine.  
> Meanwhile the world goes on.  
> Meanwhile the sun and the clear pebbles of the rain  
> are moving across the landscapes,  
> over the prairies and the deep trees,  
> the mountains and the rivers.  
> Meanwhile the wild geese, high in the clean blue air,  
> are heading home again.  
> Whoever you are, no matter how lonely,  
> the world offers itself to your imagination,  
> calls to you like the wild geese, harsh and exciting —  
> over and over announcing your place  
> in the family of things.

***

I wrote about that last poem [almost seven years ago today](https://lucascherkewski.com/study/meanwhile-the-world-goes-on/), after a striking experience. Tonight, I walked in the same park, letting myself listen to the great stillness of snow, snow everywhere, snow on the ground and on a rapidly freezing river. It remains one of my favourite poems, one that I have quite literally taken to heart.

All the best for the week ahead.

Lucas
