---
layout: study--post
title: 'Sauce'
subtitle: 'How I make it(ish)'
date: '2019-11-23 09:21:21 -0500'
categories:
published: true
---

This is a vegetarian recipe. For a non vegetarian version, I’d start with cooking meat in the pot, then reserve the meat and use the drippings to start things off. Also would probably add crushed anchovies/anchovy paste.

## Stuff you'll need

- tomatoes (pulped? crushed? I dunno how to call it. A friend suggests “crushed”)
- garlic
- onions
- carrots
- olive oil, maybe also butter depending on taste
- vinegar and/or wine
- seasonings (salt, oregano, nutmeg, maybe chili flakes or such if you want some heat, also maybe thyme or rosemary, parsley, whatever you feel)
- hard cheese rind if you have one

## You'll want to chop up

- garlic (lots) decently fine (not like tiny, but y'know)
- onion (usually like 0.5–1cm in size? ¯\_(ツ)_/¯)
- carrot (same size as onion, roughly same amount)
- carrot (take one or two and just chop in half/quarters)

## Getting the sauce going

- put the garlic in a pot with some heated olive oil
- once the kitchen smells great from the garlic, add the onion and carrot; salt them
- once the onion and carrots are softened (can add some butter to help if you'd like—you want a decentish amount of oil/butter in the final sauce), add wine and/or vinegar
- once the added liquid is kinda cooked off, add the tomatoes
- add stuff: half/quartered carrots; cheese rind (if you're doing that); seasonings (don't forget salt, oregano, nutmeg—the rest is up to you); touch more vinegar/wine if you want

## Cooking the sauce

This is just how I do it, you can do it however—times kinda depend on how much tomato pulp etc you've put in.

- medium-high until it comes to a boil
- leave it on a mild boil with lid on for 15–20(ish) minutes, stirring every 10 minutes
- once the sauce is cooked (kinda roasted, idk how to describe), take lid off and cook at mild boil for another 20–30(ish) minutes, stirring every 10 minutes
- once it's cooked down a bit and it looks less liquidy, scrape the tomato that's cooked on around the pot back into the sauce (it's good stuff); now you can lower the temperature (to low, right near simmer) and settle in for a few hours
- once a few hours have passed (or it looks quite concentrated), you can put the lid on and lower the temperature all the way to simmer